# Lecture 9

## Sepearate Compilation

```c++
g++ main.cc
g++ vec.cc
```

Will give a linker error. This is because we made promises we didn't keep. There are implementatiosn in main.cc that vec.cc relies on.

By default g++ tries to compile, link and produce and exec.

We can only compile if we use:

```c++
g++ -c main.cc
g++ -c vec.cc
```

This produces object files (.o)
- contains compiled code
- info about what is defined and what is required

g++ can be given .o files
g++ main.o vec.o

The linker is simply a matchmaker that checks to see that everything that is required is satisfied. "Promises" from the header are kept.

Will need to keep track of which files need to be recompiled.
- Use tool: `make`

## Makefile

- specify project dependencies

File is in `lectures/tools/make`

```
//dependencies for program
myprogram: main.o vec.o
 g++ main.o vec.o -o myprogram

//dependencies for object file
vec.o: vec.cc vec.h
 g++ -std=c++14 -c vec.cc

main.o: main.cc vec.h
 g++ -std=c++14 -c main.cc

//if clean delete myprogram
.PHONY: clean

clean:
 rm *.o myprogram
```

## Include Guards
File(s) c++/separate/examples

It is really hard to track which file includes which header file.

How can we avoid multiple includes?
- Use an include guard

```c++
//in vec.h we add these lines at the top
#ifndef VEC-H // <= variable used must be unique to the program (use name of file)
#define VEC-H

//All code here

#endif
```
Always include include guards in all .h files

- never compile .h files
- never include .cc files
- Do not put "using namespace std;" in header files
- Alwats use the full name std::istream, std::string

## C++ Classes

**C++ Classes**
Big idea for OOP: you can put functions inside of structs

**student.h**
```c++
struct Student {
  int assns, mt, final;
  float grade(); //forward declaration
}
```

**student.cc**
```c++
#include "student.h"

float Student :: grade(){
  return assns * 0.4 + int * 0.2 + final * 0.4
}
```

`::` - is the scope resolution operator

`Student::` - tells the compiler "in the scope of the student structure"

```c++
Student billy{80, 50, 70};
cout << billy.grade() << endl;
```

---

In OOP, a class in a struct type that can contain functions.
There is nothing that a class can do that a struct cannot do

An instance of a class is called an object.
eg. billy is an object

- A function inside a class/struct is called a member function or method
- A method can only be called using an object of that class.
- Withing a method, the method can access the fields of the object on which the method was called.

A method contains a hidden parameter named "this"
"this" points to the object on which the method was called
this == billy

**student.cc**
```c++
#include "student.h"

float Student :: grade(){
  return this->assns * 0.4 + this->int * 0.2 + this->final * 0.4
}
```
## Initializing objects

```c++
Student billy{60,50,70};
// This is c-style initialization
```
In c++ we can write special methods when constructing objects. These are called constructors.

**student.h**
```c++
struct Student {
  Student (int assns, int mt, int final);
  //no return type for constructors
}
```

**student.cc**
```c++
Student::Student (int assns, int mt, int final){
  this->assns=assns;
  this->mt = mt;
  this->final = final;
}
```
