### Lecture 4: Shell Continued

#### Shell Variables

```
$ x=1
```
Assigns 1 to variable x

```
$ echo $x
```
will give us
```
1
```

**Use no spaces in the assignment**
**Values stored as string**

'Single quotes will suppress replacing a variable to its value'

`$PATH` - a bunch of directory paths that the shell will search to find programs

#### Shell Scripts
A text file that contains a sequence of linux commands that are executed as a program.

File: basic

```
#!/bin/bash - shebang line (whatever follows is a bash script)
pwd
whoami
date
```

For any script we must set execute permissions for the file.

We can simply do basic, as the path does not know the filepath of the script. Therefore we must supply a relative filepath.

We can do this by saying `./basic`

Or if you add . to PATH it will always look for the script in the current directory

#### Command line arguments

```
$> ./script arg1 arg2
```

Within the script, the variable

$1 contains arg1
$2 contains arg2

##### *Example:*

**One**: Is the given argument a word in the dictionary?

Use: ./isItAWord <text>

```
#!/bin/bash
egrep '^$1$' /usr/share/dict/words
```

**Two**: A good password should not be in the dictionary. Is the given argument a good password

/dev/null - is used to throw away output
Every process in linux exits with a status code
`0` - success
`non-zero` - failure

It is zero because there are many ways to fail.

`$?` - stores status code of the last executed process (variable)

Use : ./isGoodPassword

```
#!/bin/bash
egrep '^$1$' /usr/share/dict/words > /dev/null
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
  echo Not a good password?
else
  echo Maybe a good password
fi
```
`fi` - signals end of if statement
`-eq` - command for equal
`[` - is actually the name of a program, its called the test program, takes 3 arguments, ended with `]`

Comments start with `#`

`$#` - tells you the number of arguments provided
`$0` - is the name of the script (how it was called)
`exit` - to terminate the script

In goodPasswordUsage we have a subroutine called usage

```
usage() {
  echo "Usage: $0 password" >&2
  exit 1
}

if [ ${#} -ne 1]; then
  usage
fi
```

`>&2` - redirects output to stdout, need the & or else it goes to file

- subroutines for reuse

Syntax for if

```
if [ condition ] then
elif [ condition ] then
else (optional)
fi
```

While loop

Print numbers from 1 to $1
```
x=1
while [ $x -le $1 ]; do
  echo $x
  x = $((x + 1))
done
```

double paranthesis for arithmetic

`for var in a b c d; do echo $var; done`

will output

```
a
b
c
d
```

For loop
```
for var in a b c d; do
  echo $var
done
```

**Rename all .cpp to .cc**
eg. mv Hello.cpp Hello.cc

```
$filename = Hello.cpp
mv $filename ${filename%pp}c
```

Now put this into a loop

```bash
for name in *.C; do
  mv ${name} ${name%C}cc
done
```

Count the # of times $1 appears in $2

```bash
#!/bin/bash
count=0
for word in $(cat $2); do
  if [ $word == "$1" ]; then
    count = $((count + 1))
  fi
done
echo $count
```

command must be embedded inside `$()`
multi word strings must be encased in `""`

`cal` - gives us a calendar

`cal | awk '{print $6}'` - gives us

```

Fr

7
14
21
28

```

`cal | awk ' { print $6 }' | egrep [0-9] | tail -1` - will give us the last day of the month
